Previously on Will Trent...
There's this guest lecture
coming up
about human parasites.
-I thought you might
be interested.
-Why. yes.
Amanda was secretly working
with a contact at the FBI.
Why didn't she say anything?
Will. I've left you
a little present.
No. No. no. no.
Amanda...
Amanda entered the APD
a young woman.
For some of us old-timers.
she was Wags.
She had this gift
of seeing who you could be.
and then pushing you
down that path.
Amanda found me.
She was planning a life with you.
You're connected.
She is your family.
Hey! Come back here!
Thief!
Stop him!
Excuse me.
I saw you!
Hey!
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Wilbur Trent.
- Get up. The captain
wants to see you.
Me? Why?
Beats me. Guess you must
be somebody special.
Okay. Here we go.
Murder.
Victim one. Ethan Attis.
age 53. research biologist.
Second victim
is Krista Sanderton. 28.
Mr. Attis's girlfriend.
Ligature marks indicate
that. uh. both victims
were strangled.
Minor injuries on the bodies
suggest a struggle.
Could you all. uh. just give me
a few minutes here alone.
please?
So both victims were alive
when you and your crew
arrived this morning?
Yeah. the girlfriend
answered the door. took us
to the kitchen to meet Ethan.
Once we got started.
all the work was in the kitchen
and upstairs bathroom.
so. we never saw 'em again.
Until you found the bodies.
We were finishing up.
I needed a signature.
Called it in.
got my guys outside.
waited for you to show up.
So your crew
was working here all day.
You didn't hear anything.
see anything?
I swear it's the truth.
Ethan Attis was a seeker.
Absorbed in his work.
Saltwater aquarium.
Terrarium.
Get a list of species.
Krista's purse was emptied.
contents scattered.
Could be a botched robbery.
Plastic tubing from
the aquarium corresponds
with ligature marks.
Murder was impulsive.
House was unlocked.
The intruder slipped in.
Ethan caught him. They fought.
Ethan was strangled.
And then Krista came in.
and she was strangled too?
No.
No. she would have screamed.
run. called for help.
Okay. so...
so it was Krista who came in
and surprised the intruder.
and so then
she was strangled first.
That's not it either.
Krista was alone.
The intruder
came in on her...
I see the car
every day at the same time.
Thank you.
Hey. Will. Wait up. Will.
The neighbor said that Attis
had the same housekeeper
every day for years.
Today's the one day
she's not here.
- It's convenient.
- Yeah. I'll track her down.
I know.
I could barely get out
of bed this morning.
Weird scene. huh?
What's your take on it?
Honestly. I. uh...
I have no idea
what happened in there.
Hey.
Hey. how's it going
with the plumbers?
Well. so far background checks
are all clean.
We're cross-checking statements
for any inconsistencies.
Looks like Ethan Attis was
some kind of smarty-pants. huh?
Former professor.
research centered on longevity.
He left academia to work for
this startup biotech thing.
BeneFuturum.
"Death is optional"?
Yeah.
You've been pregnant
for three years.
Thirty-eight-and-a-half weeks.
thank you very much.
Perfectly normal human
gestation period.
I can't remember a time
when you weren't pregnant.
I'm sorry. is my pregnancy
hard on you two?
I'm just waiting for a toddler
to walk out of your baby oven.
All right.
Ethan was fired a year ago.
The official story is that
the CEO. Ward Falcon--
That is not his name. I refuse.
Falcon said that. uh.
Ethan's research was
"insufficiently monetizable."
They were seen last month
at a public event
exchanging words.
Witnesses said it got heated.
Okay. Well. we should
go talk to Ward Falcon.
Okay.
Hey.
Is Trent all right?
Um. probably not.
He took copies of everything.
went to his office. I think...
I think he's...
Yeah. Well. it's gonna be weird
for all of us for a while.
Yeah.
It occurred to me
that we take this simple thing
that we all do for granted.
You know. sleep has always been
biologically restorative.
but I believe
it has the potential
to be transformative.
And is that the focus of your current work. Dr.
Attis?
Yeah. without getting
into specifics.
I've been testing
a few formulations.
I always take my cues
from nature.
Whatever we can imagine.
nature has already solved.
Eduardo. call Seth.
Calling Seth McDale.
- Hey.
- Hey. Um. Seth. I. uh...
Do you have any time today?
It's about a case.
-Could use your help.
-Yeah. I'm free today.
-Great. Um...
-I should be available
around 12:30.
Okay. yeah. I'll see you then.
Hey. Is this an okay time?
Yeah. Um. do you know
when. uh. Pete's gonna be done
with his autopsy?
I-I can't get a hold of him.
He is testifying
in court today.
so probably not for a while.
-Oh.
-You find something?
I don't know. Um. not sure yet.
So. um. my mom
is packing up Amanda's house.
and she thought you might want
some of these things.
I can have them
sent to your place.
No. um. that's...
Can you. uh...
Can you put them there. please?
Thank you.
Sorry you had to--
It's fine. It's fine.
Um. I've got the victim's
housekeeper coming in.
-Do you want to join?
-No.
You got it.
I'll let you know
when Pete's back.
Ligature marks between
the victims are not consistent.
House was unlocked.
The intruder slipped in.
Ethan caught him. They fought.
Ethan was strangled.
And then Krista came in.
and she was strangled too?
No. she would have screamed.
run. called for help.
Okay. so...
so it was Krista who came in
and surprised the intruder.
and so then
she was strangled first.
That's not it either.
Krista was alone.
The intruder
came in on her...
Faith. I think
someone just tried to...
Eduardo. call Faith.
-Where'd you come from.
little angel?
-Oh. God.
What happened. and who are you?
You're fine. This is
a rather elaborate protocol
for a pretty small problem.
What sort of problem?
A sample
from the Attis case.
something from
one of the glass tanks.
is technically a neurotoxin.
and it was put
in the wrong kind of container.
There's no threat
of exposure to you.
but we still have
to test everyone.
send them home.
air the place out.
Shall we?
I'm thinking of trying
that new noodle place
down the street.
You been? I hear good things.
No. Look. I'm on a case
and I need my phone.
so if we can do this quickly?
Hey. I thought you said
you were clearing...
Um...
You're not supposed
to use that phone.
That's weird. It's not working.
I'm trying to get a hold
of a friend.
She works here. Um...
-May I?
-No. you may not.
You know who works
at that desk?
My mom works at this desk.
Okay. So.
I think we started backwards.
I'm Will.
I'm Faith.
You're Faith?
What are you in for?
No. I'm...
Shoplifting.
I've been here before.
Something's wrong with my head.
Trent!
Captain's ready. Let's go.
Captain. here's the collar
you wanted to see.
Wilbur Trent.
This is Captain Amanda Wagner.
- Mind your manners.
-  -Thank you. Sergeant Heller.
You can leave us.
I shouldn't be here.
I have an arrest report
that disagrees.
Wilbur Trent.
have a seat.
I have been taking care
of Ethan's house for years.
I hired the plumbers.
I handle those sort of things.
so Ethan can focus on work.
But you didn't go there today.
His lady friend
said it made no sense.
Why clean the floors
when the workers are just
gonna tramp in more mud?
Ethan's lady friend.
Krista Sanderton.
what can you tell us about her?
- I don't know.
-  She's a-a receptionist somewhere.
It's not my business.
You seem to have
an opinion about it.
Ethan was smitten.
He is a solitary man.
He is quite awkward
around people.
He's never been this happy.
And you and Ethan never...
No. no. No.
No. of course not.
He's a serious man.
He's a genius.
So his relationship with Krista
must have surprised you.
She's young. pretty.
hung on his every word.
I mean. what's the surprise?
Ms. Hughes.
did Ethan ever mention
his old boss. Ward Falcon?
Definitely not.
He hasn't mentioned
his name since the day
he left the company.
No. Ethan hated him.
Detectives.
this is Mr. Falcon.
If you're looking for a chair.
you won't find one.
Movement is medicine.
You're welcome to use
a walking pad
during our meeting.
I'm good. Thanks.
Sure. I could use
a few extra miles today.
Jackie.
How can I help you. gentlemen?
We wanted to discuss
your former employee.
Ethan Attis.
Oh. yeah. I was so sad
to hear that he died.
He was a genius.
but if I may be frank.
he was a mad genius.
-"A mad genius."
-Say more.
I respected Ethan.
That was a world-class brain.
a real disrupter.
But honestly. I should've
fired him years before I did.
Hold up. please. Jackie.
Let's do recovery regimen
protocol B.
Let's go. let's go.
Is the green smoothie okay.
or would you prefer
the anti-inflammatory?
Green. Green is fine.
I'm fasting
the rest of the week.
Tell the neuro group
I want to meet
right after this.
- I'll take care of it.
-You were saying you should have...
You were saying you should have
fired Ethan sooner?
After the paucity
of research funds in academia.
Ethan went a little crazy
with the funds
that we had here.
His studies grew more fringe.
more expensive.
and they seemed
to be going nowhere.
I started to feel that
he was taking advantage of me.
When's the last time
you saw each other?
I'm assuming you heard
about our confrontation.
It was nothing. really.
I asked Ethan
how his research was going.
and he told me to go to hell.
-That's it?
-Ethan was unstable.
He was using himself
as a test subject.
You know what
he was working on?
No.
So you're telling me
if you had a pill that
bought you another 50 years.
you wouldn't take it?
Man. after the life I've had.
I'm grateful to be alive
this long.
-Slow down.
-I can't walk any slower.
She coming?
Give her a chance.
- Come on. Jackie.
I believe in you.
-There's our girl.
-Detectives.
I thought you might like to try
some BeneFuturum products
with our compliments.
Thank you. Jackie.
Is there something you want
to share with us. Jackie?
Uh. I-I was at the conference
with Mr. Falcon and Dr. Attis.
I... I heard them arguing.
And it didn't go down
the way your boss said it did.
did it?
He had to know
what Ethan was working on
because he offered him
his old job back.
plus a huge bonus.
and said he'd fast-track
clinical trials.
anything Ethan wanted
for this game changer.
some formula.
Well. what did
Ethan say to this offer?
"Over my dead body."
Why were you stealing?
I was hungry.
You ever think
about getting a job?
I had a job. but the friend
I was working with
had to go away.
Rafael Wexford. Correct?
And the reason he "went away"
was because he was arrested
for murder.
That's the truth
they decided on.
People like you don't care.
First thing
we need to get straight.
you don't know people like me.
Tell me about this job.
I was a salesman.
Handmade Turkish rugs.
Any good?
Well. I was moving 20 units
a week at $3.500 a unit. cash.
Which is really
a remarkable price
for an original.
durable work of art
that'll be in the family
for generations.
A quality rug makes
a statement. You might wanna--
Mm-hmm. So you read people.
gain their trust.
talk them out of their money.
Well. not exactly.
That takes insight.
And skill.
You and I both know
this isn't your first time
breaking the law.
Is this how you intend
to go through life?
I remember this.
I was so afraid.
Why didn't you tell me
it was you?
It was you who saved me.
You knew
exactly who I was.
You knew my mother.
Everything could have been
so different.
You want to be taken seriously?
You need to be
a serious person.
You want to stop
feeling sorry for yourself?
-Be of service.
I know this case.
I can't seem
to get my mind clear.
My hands are so cold.
Amanda?
I came down here
to look at the bodies.
Ow.
Someone attacked me.
- That's a good brain
you got there.
It's a shame
you don't really use it
for more than just getting by.
You know. you don't know
anything about me.
Something else is going on.
This isn't real.
It's in my head.
Obviously.
But why? I got attacked...
...hit on the head...
I must be unconscious.
Excellent.
Why is it so cold?
Figure it out.
Oh. what?
You're gonna tell me you can't.
because life has been unfair?
- You can't read?
People say you're stupid?
Why were you always
so hard on me?
Because my father's father
was hard on him.
-He was hard on me.
-Mmm.
And now
I'm being hard on you.
So think.
If you were the attacker
and you didn't want
to get caught.
what would you do?
I'd hide the body.
The cold I've been feeling.
the dread.
the whole world
closing in on me.
I know where I am.
Okay. Fine. Thank you. Bye.
Are these Krista Sanderton?
Yes. Aka Kristin Sandvale.
They both are.
Three years ago.
she was arrested
for check fraud. Fulton County.
Six months later.
took a collar for slinging
counterfeit Gucci bags
out the back of her trunk.
-Well. so much
for being a receptionist.
-Well. she kind of was.
Earlier this year.
she was at the front desk of
Mount Olympus Athletic Club--
Oh. Isn't that place expensive?
People join it for the flex.
Exactly.
She was fired for ingratiating
herself to male club members
and ripping off
their credit cards.
No charges were pressed
because the club
didn't want the scandal.
Do you think she was
scamming Ethan. though?
It's not like his pockets
were that deep.
I know.
Maybe it was one of the guys
that she ripped off
coming after her.
and Ethan was
just collateral damage?
Hmm.
-Have you seen Will?
-He might have gone home.
I texted and told him
that I would cover him
if he needed another day.
Oh. my God.
God. you guys
are babies here.
Hmm.
Yeah. She had it at her house.
How you holding up?
You know. I guess I thought
that work would keep
my mind busy. but. um...
Yeah. I know.
Oh. Why do I feel so.
uh. peaceful?
Hmm. Possibly the rise
of carbon dioxide.
Creates a sense of euphoria.
Right.
The morgue drawers are closed
by a magnetic seal.
and the cold air
creates a partial vacuum.
I'm... I'm gonna
run out of air and suffocate.
Yes. excellent.
Um... Oh.
Look at this new suit.
-Gotta look the part.
-Hmm.
And you will pay me back.
That's right.
- You bought me
my first good suit.
-You saw something in me.
-No. no. we're not doing this.
I mean.
would it have killed you
to invite me over to dinner?
Ask about my life.
told me about yours?
God. this is
a long elevator ride.
I don't know anything
about your childhood. your mom.
Did you go to prom?
Did you...
Did you get in trouble? Huh?
You look like you might have.
What did you expect?
That we were gonna
go get ice cream
and sing "Ain't No Mountain
High Enough" together?
Yes. why not?
I mean. we both know the words.
You are a fool.
Wilbur.
What happened to you...
I'll spend the rest of my life
making it right with you.
Why'd you have to go looking
for The Commander alone?
Why'd you keep so many secrets?
I mean...
It's my fault.
I shouldn't have--
Hey. hey. now.
Don't you dare take credit
for my actions. young man.
I make my own choices.
Yes. ma'am.
You've only got
a couple of hours left.
How would you like to spend it?
I want to solve
a case with you.
I can clear my afternoon.
They were both strangled
with the same tubing.
-But the marks are different.
you see?
-Mmm.
Good. Details first.
Most people
tell themselves a story
and then see the details
that fit later on. Go on.
Well. hers show more force.
She was strangled harder.
longer.
She fought back more.
Or maybe she mattered more.
But why?
In my experience.
murder tends to be motivated
from one of three places:
the heart. the loins.
or the hands.
The hands?
Boy. need I remind you
of what you did
with your hands?
Yes. I stole.
Exactly. This work
isn't for everyone.
But it could bring purpose
and meaning
in a world filled with cruelty.
Wilbur. it could make
all that happened to you
mean something.
I'm a doctor. Very charming.
I like worms.
My first wife died.
It wasn't me. it was cancer.
Recently. I got married
to the love of Will's life.
We're expecting a baby soon.
I'm very happy.
Okay. Doctor.
You want to tell me
what you're doing here?
Um...
Will?
I called you.
Yes. it had
something to do with...
with these photos.
Right. um...
Ugh. what was it? Uh...
Oh. Wor... Worms.
You like worms.
That's it. Yes. wait. we-we...
we learned about these.
didn't we?
Some type of flatworm.
Um. nicknamed. uh...
Come on.
- "Landchovies."
- Right.
Yes. very aggressive hunters.
They subdue their prey
by rubbing up against them.
Yes. yes. that's what
I was trying to remember.
They. uh...
Their skin secretes something.
- Mmm. uh. let me think.
- Um...
Hold on. let me think.
Uh. they're...
Come on.
You know this. right. because
I'm an extension of you.
-Tetrodotoxin.
-That is a neurotoxin.
Wait a minute.
That's what the guy
in the hazmat suit said to you.
Yes. Yes. yes. yes.
Other animals have it too.
Starfish. newts.
That must be what all these
pictures in Ethan's office
have in common.
So what does
this tetrodo...
...whatever the hell do?
Well. it depends on the amount.
It disrupts the signals
to the muscles.
causing paralysis.
It lowers blood pressure.
slows down breathing.
- It tends to be lethal.
but the--
Ooh.
Excuse me. This thing.
Oh. shoot.
I need to go save some children
and make love to Angie.
No. don't.
I really enjoyed
seeing you. Will.
I hope you figure this out.
I don't want you to die.
-Me neither.
-Okay.
Okay. thank you. Seth.
I will try.
Well. he was very helpful.
Krista and I
only worked together
for a few months. but...
No. sorry. No way was
she in love with that guy.
I mean. we heard
they were pretty happy.
Oh. Krista was good at that.
She could make men
believe anything.
Like our boss. Simon.
She told him that
waking up at 7:00 a.m.
triggered her migraines.
so she never had
to work the opening shift.
That girl was always
working an angle.
She ever seem scared to you?
Like somebody
was bothering her.
anything like that?
Uh. no. She was fearless.
- Too fearless. I guess.
- Mmm.
-Where did you get that?
-Uh. the founder's a member
at the gym.
Ward Falcon?
Did Krista know him?
Yeah. duh. Didn't she go
to work for him or something?
She told me that
after she got fired.
He was paying way more
than what we made at the club.
I'll tell Faith.
You sit tight.
Uh. Polaski.
Hey. you busy?
I have 47 seconds.
and they are all yours.
Well. I better
make it count then.
Um...
I don't want to be dramatic.
but I'm a little worried
about Will.
Yeah. why?
Well. he's not picking up
his phone.
He probably went home
and turned off his ringer.
Anyway. it was
his first day back. so...
Yeah. but we were supposed
to meet an hour ago.
He would've texted. right?
I mean. it's just...
I don't know.
It doesn't seem like him.
No. it doesn't.
See. right here. Ever since
Krista started dating Ethan.
she was receiving
weekly payments from something
called Somni LLC.
It's got to be a shell company.
no doubt owned by Ward Falcon.
Mmm. So he was paying her
to steal Ethan's new formula.
Maybe she got caught.
Yeah. but if anyone
was gonna kill her for that.
it would have been Ethan.
Well. then. who killed him?
Oh.
Hey. Angie.
What?
Hey. Pete. have you seen Will?
-Has he been down here?
-No. no.
He's missing. He had photos
of victims' bodies on his desk.
We thought maybe
he came down here.
What's wrong?
I-I just got back from court
and I was about to change.
One of the bodies is missing.
What. like it was misplaced?
No. no.
it was here when I left.
and now it's gone.
How the hell does that happen?
Will. get in here.
We're running out of time.
Look what I found.
Oh. yeah.
Ethan had the same painting
in his study.
Greenland shark. um...
That's all I know.
Oh. come on.
Calvin and his Big Book
of Shark Facts would slap you
if they heard you say that.
I feel sick.
- I know.
You're running out of oxygen.
But. Wilbur. I need you to try.
Yeah. Okay.
Greenland shark.
It can live up to 500 years
because of the cold water.
and they're slow.
Their hearts are slow.
The slower the heartbeat.
the longer it lasts.
Worm toxin
slows everything down.
Well. maybe Ethan was using it
in his sleep formula
to live longer.
There. See?
I'm gonna make sure
you go to college.
Wait. what?
No. no.
I'm-I'm no good at school.
No college would take me.
Oh. I don't want to hear it.
You need a degree
to come work here at the GBI.
That's where I'm headed. Here.
- They think I should be happy...
- ...with captain.
No.
I'm just getting started.
and you're coming with me.
I have a vision.
You trying to make fun of me?
College? GBI?
I can't do that. okay?
Don't do this to me again.
Wilbur...
I'm offering you a future.
With me.
If I take it. you die.
You died. Amanda.
You died.
Who is that?
He's bad news. Come on.
Come on.
-Maybe he's here to help.
-No. He doesn't
want us together.
What was
the first thing you saw
after you got knocked out?
Nothing. Everyone was gone.
You saw the man
in the hazmat suit.
He told you
there was a neurotoxin
at the crime scene.
Your instinct hasn't left you
just because I died.
Or are you gonna
keep telling yourself
you can't do this without me?
I kept waiting for this idea
of who I thought you should be.
-I realize I never said--
-Will. it's okay.
I know. I knew.
Thank you for believing in me.
There were signs of a struggle.
Gash on his cheek.
It was Krista.
Broken nail.
They were fighting each other.
Her purse.
Ethan was searching it.
It was the formula
he was working on.
She was stealing it.
He strangled her in a rage.
But the plumbers were home.
He knew he'd get caught.
Ethan wrapped the tubing
around his own throat.
He took enough of the formula.
it would slow his heart
to almost nothing.
Ethan Attis was never dead.
That's who attacked you.
He woke up and escaped.
No!
-Will!
-I should have killed you.
Wilbur Trent. come on now.
Come on. I need you
to get in the drawer.
-No. I'm not leaving you.
-Yes.
Your friends will find you.
okay? They'll figure it out.
No.
Will. Will!
I need you
to trust me. okay?
You have to go. now!
Come on.
Okay. Come on.
I got you. Here. Come on. Okay.
It's time for you to let me go.
I don't wanna leave you.
Don't leave me please.
I will always be with you.
You hear me? Always.
I love you. Wilbur.
I love you too. Amanda.
Will.
- Oxygen.
- Okay.
Uh. we need medical...
GBI! Don't move!
All you had to do
was keep running.
You just couldn't leave
your formula. could you?
I'm not a murderer.
All I ever wanted
was to help people.
I loved Krista. and she...
It all happened so fast.
I was out of my mind.
Yet you still had
the thought to hide the goods
so no one else could find 'em.
and you left
a GBI special agent
to suffocate and die.
Too bad for you. he lived.
Put it down. Now!
Turn around.
Ethan Attis. I'm placing you
under arrest for the murder
of Krista Sanderton
and the attempted murder
of Special Agent Will Trent.
Let's go.
You solved the case
while unconscious.
and you're making
good progress.
You should be
going home later today.
You're very lucky.
I don't know about that. Um...
This year has felt like
all my luck has run out.
I know that kind of year.
Your first wife?
Mmm.
You know. with my job.
I'm around death all the time.
But nothing prepared me
for when she got sick.
I just... I had to watch her
get sicker and weaker.
and I couldn't stop it.
And then she was gone.
and my life was over.
But then I had this year.
Things can turn on a dime.
And sometimes
even for the better.
Yeah. I guess so.
Oh.
Where'd you come from.
little angel?
Oh. my gosh. This is you?
You were so cute.
Look. you're actually smiling.
What's this?
A promise.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today